KEP-3836 documentation for 1.30 (#45290)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips.md

are no node-local endpoints, the kube-proxy does not forward any traffic for the
relevant Service.

> 

Reviewer: I wonder if this mostly belongs under the heading `### Traffic to terminating endpoints`. (my guess is: yes it does; you could leave in a one sentence hyperlink to the moved text)

and somewhere you ought to add:

```markdown

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="KubeProxyDrainingTerminatingNodes" >}}

```

Author: > I wonder if this mostly belongs under the heading ### Traffic to terminating endpoints

Not quite, what I've added deals with "traffic to terminating nodes"

> and somewhere you ought to add:

What does that do? The feature is beta in 1.30 so enabled by default.

Reviewer: The feature state shortcode tells people they need a particular Kubernetes version to use it - see https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/new-content/new-features/#ready-for-review-feature-gates

The reason why kube-proxy returns 503 and marks the node as not
eligible when it's being deleted, is because kube-proxy supports connection
draining for terminating nodes. A couple of important things occur from the point
of view of a Kubernetes-managed load balancer when a node _is being_ / _is_ deleted.

While deleting:

* kube-proxy will start failing its readiness probe and essentially mark the
   node as not eligible for load balancer traffic. The load balancer health
   check failing causes load balancers which support connection draining to
   allow existing connections to terminate, and block new connections from
   establishing.

When deleted:

* The service controller in the Kubernetes cloud controller manager removes the
  node from the referenced set of eligible targets. Removing any instance from
  the load balancer's set of backend targets immediately terminates all
  connections. This is also the reason kube-proxy first fails the health check
  while the node is deleting.

It's important to note for Kubernetes vendors that if any vendor configures the
kube-proxy readiness probe as a liveness probe: that kube-proxy will start

> restarting continuously when a node is deleting until it has been fully deleted.

Reviewer 2: Do you want to mention `/livez` as a better liveness probe target?

Author: Absolutely, it slipped my mind. I've updated the doc

are no node-local endpoints, the kube-proxy does not forward any traffic for the
relevant Service.

If `Cluster` is specified all nodes are eligible load balancing targets _as long as_
the node is not being deleted and kube-proxy is healthy. In this mode: load balancer 
health checks are configured to target the service proxy's readiness port and path.
In the case of kube-proxy this evaluates to: `${NODE_IP}:10256/healthz`. kube-proxy
will return either an HTTP code 200 or 503. kube-proxy's load balancer health check

> endpoint returns 200 if:

Reviewer: Nice

  node from the referenced set of eligible targets. Removing any instance from
  the load balancer's set of backend targets immediately terminates all
  connections. This is also the reason kube-proxy first fails the health check
  while the node is deleting.

It's important to note for Kubernetes vendors that if any vendor configures the
kube-proxy readiness probe as a liveness probe: that kube-proxy will start
restarting continuously when a node is deleting until it has been fully deleted.

Users deploying kube-proxy can inspect both the readiness / liveness state by
evaluating the metrics: `proxy_livez_total` / `proxy_healthz_total`. Both
metrics publish two series, one with the 200 label and one with the 503 one.

For `Local` Services: kube-proxy will return 200 if

1. kube-proxy is healthy/ready, and
2. has a local endpoint on the node in question.

Node deletion does **not** have an impact on kube-proxy's return
code for what concerns load balancer health checks. The reason for this is:
deleting nodes could end up causing an ingress outage should all endpoints
simultaneously be running on said nodes.

> It's important to note that the configuration of load balancer health checks is
> specific to each cloud provider, meaning: different cloud providers configure
> the health check in different ways. The three main cloud providers do so in the
> following way:
> 
> * AWS: if ELB; probes the first NodePort defined on the service spec
> * Azure: probes all NodePort defined on the service spec.
> * GCP: probes port 10256 (kube-proxy's healthz port)

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
The configuration of load balancer health checks is specific to each cloud provider,
and depends on the behavior of the cloud-controller-manager implementation
(which may be third-party, rather than code provided by the Kubernetes project).
{{< /note >}}
```
?

There are drawbacks and benefits to each method, so none can be considered fully
right, but it is important to mention that connection draining using kube-proxy
can therefore only occur for cloud providers which configure the health checks to
target kube-proxy. Also note that configuring health checks to target the application
might cause ingress downtime should the application experience issues which
are unrelated to networking problems. The recommendation is therefore that cloud
providers configure the load balancer health checks to target the service

> proxy's healthz port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes project recommends that cloud provider integration code
configures load balancer health checks that target the service proxy's healthz port.
If you are using or implementing your own virtual IP implementation, that people can
use instead of kube-proxy, you should set up a similar health checking port with logic
that matches the kube-proxy implementation.
```
?

Author: I've just applied this proposal
